

# Twitter Connector

The [Twitter Streaming API](https://dev.twitter.com/docs/streaming-apis) provides access to the stream of tweets made available by Twitter. Flink Streaming comes with a built-in `TwitterSource` class for establishing a connection to this stream. To use this connector, add the following dependency to your project:

<figure class="highlight">

```
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.apache.flink</groupId>
  <artifactId>flink-connector-twitter_2.11</artifactId>
  <version>1.7.1</version>
</dependency>
```

</figure>

Note that the streaming connectors are currently not part of the binary distribution. See linking with them for cluster execution [here](//ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-docs-release-1.7/dev/linking.html).

#### Authentication

In order to connect to the Twitter stream the user has to register their program and acquire the necessary information for the authentication. The process is described below.

#### Acquiring the authentication information

First of all, a Twitter account is needed. Sign up for free at [twitter.com/signup](https://twitter.com/signup) or sign in at Twitter’s [Application Management](https://apps.twitter.com/) and register the application by clicking on the “Create New App” button. Fill out a form about your program and accept the Terms and Conditions. After selecting the application, the API key and API secret (called `twitter-source.consumerKey` and `twitter-source.consumerSecret` in `TwitterSource` respectively) are located on the “API Keys” tab. The necessary OAuth Access Token data (`twitter-source.token` and `twitter-source.tokenSecret` in `TwitterSource`) can be generated and acquired on the “Keys and Access Tokens” tab. Remember to keep these pieces of information secret and do not push them to public repositories.

#### Usage

In contrast to other connectors, the `TwitterSource` depends on no additional services. For example the following code should run gracefully:

<figure class="highlight">

```
Properties props = new Properties();
props.setProperty(TwitterSource.CONSUMER_KEY, "");
props.setProperty(TwitterSource.CONSUMER_SECRET, "");
props.setProperty(TwitterSource.TOKEN, "");
props.setProperty(TwitterSource.TOKEN_SECRET, "");
DataStream<String> streamSource = env.addSource(new TwitterSource(props));
```

</figure>

<figure class="highlight">

```
val props = new Properties()
props.setProperty(TwitterSource.CONSUMER_KEY, "")
props.setProperty(TwitterSource.CONSUMER_SECRET, "")
props.setProperty(TwitterSource.TOKEN, "")
props.setProperty(TwitterSource.TOKEN_SECRET, "")
val streamSource = env.addSource(new TwitterSource(props))
```

</figure>

The `TwitterSource` emits strings containing a JSON object, representing a Tweet.

The `TwitterExample` class in the `flink-examples-streaming` package shows a full example how to use the `TwitterSource`.

By default, the `TwitterSource` uses the `StatusesSampleEndpoint`. This endpoint returns a random sample of Tweets. There is a `TwitterSource.EndpointInitializer` interface allowing users to provide a custom endpoint.

