

# Fault Tolerance

Flink’s fault tolerance mechanism recovers programs in the presence of failures and continues to execute them. Such failures include machine hardware failures, network failures, transient program failures, etc.

## Batch Processing Fault Tolerance (DataSet API)

Fault tolerance for programs in the _DataSet API_ works by retrying failed executions. The number of time that Flink retries the execution before the job is declared as failed is configurable via the _execution retries_ parameter. A value of _0_ effectively means that fault tolerance is deactivated.

To activate the fault tolerance, set the _execution retries_ to a value larger than zero. A common choice is a value of three.

This example shows how to configure the execution retries for a Flink DataSet program.

<figure class="highlight">

```
ExecutionEnvironment env = ExecutionEnvironment.getExecutionEnvironment();
env.setNumberOfExecutionRetries(3);
```

</figure>

<figure class="highlight">

```
val env = ExecutionEnvironment.getExecutionEnvironment()
env.setNumberOfExecutionRetries(3)
```

</figure>

You can also define default values for the number of execution retries and the retry delay in the `flink-conf.yaml`:

<figure class="highlight">

```
execution-retries.default: 3
```

</figure>

## Retry Delays

Execution retries can be configured to be delayed. Delaying the retry means that after a failed execution, the re-execution does not start immediately, but only after a certain delay.

Delaying the retries can be helpful when the program interacts with external systems where for example connections or pending transactions should reach a timeout before re-execution is attempted.

You can set the retry delay for each program as follows (the sample shows the DataStream API - the DataSet API works similarly):

<figure class="highlight">

```
ExecutionEnvironment env = ExecutionEnvironment.getExecutionEnvironment();
env.getConfig().setExecutionRetryDelay(5000); // 5000 milliseconds delay
```

</figure>

<figure class="highlight">

```
val env = ExecutionEnvironment.getExecutionEnvironment()
env.getConfig.setExecutionRetryDelay(5000) // 5000 milliseconds delay
```

</figure>

You can also define the default value for the retry delay in the `flink-conf.yaml`:

<figure class="highlight">

```
execution-retries.delay: 10 s
```

</figure>

