

# Experimental Features

This section describes experimental features in the DataStream API. Experimental features are still evolving and can be either unstable, incomplete, or subject to heavy change in future versions.

## Reinterpreting a pre-partitioned data stream as keyed stream

We can re-interpret a pre-partitioned data stream as a keyed stream to avoid shuffling.

**WARNING**: The re-interpreted data stream **MUST** already be pre-partitioned in **EXACTLY** the same way Flink’s keyBy would partition the data in a shuffle w.r.t. key-group assignment.

One use-case for this could be a materialized shuffle between two jobs: the first job performs a keyBy shuffle and materializes each output into a partition. A second job has sources that, for each parallel instance, reads from the corresponding partitions created by the first job. Those sources can now be re-interpreted as keyed streams, e.g. to apply windowing. Notice that this trick makes the second job embarrassingly parallel, which can be helpful for a fine-grained recovery scheme.

This re-interpretation functionality is exposed through `DataStreamUtils`:

<figure class="highlight">

```
 static <T, K> KeyedStream<T, K> reinterpretAsKeyedStream(
		DataStream<T> stream,
		KeySelector<T, K> keySelector,
		TypeInformation<K> typeInfo)
```

</figure>

Given a base stream, a key selector, and type information, the method creates a keyed stream from the base stream.

Code example:

<figure class="highlight">

```
 StreamExecutionEnvironment env = StreamExecutionEnvironment.getExecutionEnvironment();
        DataStreamSource<Integer> source = ...
        DataStreamUtils.reinterpretAsKeyedStream(source, (in) -> in, TypeInformation.of(Integer.class))
            .timeWindow(Time.seconds(1))
            .reduce((a, b) -> a + b)
            .addSink(new DiscardingSink<>());
        env.execute();
```

</figure>

<figure class="highlight">

```
 val env = StreamExecutionEnvironment.getExecutionEnvironment
    env.setParallelism(1)
    val source = ...
    new DataStreamUtils(source).reinterpretAsKeyedStream((in) => in)
      .timeWindow(Time.seconds(1))
      .reduce((a, b) => a + b)
      .addSink(new DiscardingSink[Int])
    env.execute()
```

</figure>

